Various updates to pages (#3152)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/add-a-new-document-type.html.md

section: Publishing
---

The [document type][] describes what a page on GOV.UK looks like.

> [document type]: https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/document-types.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[document type]: /document-types.html
```

## Add the document type in the govuk-content-schema repo

You need to add the document type into the [allowed document types][] in [govuk-content-schemas][]. Once you have added the document type you should:

- Commit the change
- Run `bundle exec rake` to generate the schemas again
- Commit this update separately

Examples of implementation:

- <https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/pull/652>
- <https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/pull/630>

[allowed document types]: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/blob/main/lib/govuk_content_schemas/allowed_document_types.yml
[govuk-content-schemas]: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas

## Add a new content schema

If your document type needs a new content schema, see "[Adding a new schema][]".

> [Adding a new schema]: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-content-schemas/blob/main/docs/adding-a-new-schema.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Adding a new schema]: /apps/govuk-content-schemas/adding-a-new-schema.html
```

Note to self: we should probably remove this confusing `app_name`: https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-developer-docs/blob/7c00e2cb356cd2e9af496baf6f48c26d740e9f67/data/applications.yml#L411

## Make the new document type available to search

If your document type should be available in search results, see "[Make a new document type available to search][]".

[Make a new document type available to search]: /manual/make-a-new-document-type-available-to-search.html

## Create a new Rake task in the publishing app

> If your new document type will be published as a static route (rather than from a publishing app), you'll need a Rake task will publish the route using the new document type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your new document type will be published as a static route (rather than from a publishing app), you'll need to create a Rake task to publish the route using the new document type.
```

Before you begin, you must identify which publishing and rendering applications will use the document type. You need to include these as parameters (payload) when you generate the route.

See "[Publish special routes]" for more information.

> > **Note**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> > Having a document type with `placeholder` prefix will not publish routes. More information can be found here under [placeholder items][placeholder-items].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: having a document type with `placeholder` prefix will not publish routes. Read more about [placeholder items][placeholder-items].
```
